docs/config.md, before:

# Configuration

Padwoman uses [YAML](https://yaml.org/) as its configuration style.


## Example Configuration

```yaml
default:
  title: Padserver
  secretkey: changeme

redis:
  host: redis

pad:
  apikey: changethistoyourkeys
  apiurl: http://etherpad:9001/api/
  url: https://pads.tld/p/

auth:
  method: ldap
  ldap:
    server: ldap://ldapserver:389
    usertree: ou=alluser,dc=blub,dc=de
    grouptree: ou=groups,dc=blub,dc=de
    userfilter: (&(uid=%s)(objectClass=posixAccount))
    groupfilter: (&(objectClass=posixGroup)(memberUID=%s))
    binddn: cn=www-data,dc=blub,dc=de
    bindpw: bindpw
  static:
    users:
      - uid: user1
        pw: user1
        cn: User 1
      - uid: admin1
        pw: $6$TChhNwMGF.1sn3yi$iJ2klrOEyGlGxOVImpIAq5Ak8J2iaVsSEFTkNONPv6F78FRD7X8UZP5Y/0BoQkf9v.Z99bjUn3qsi21M4LWZn/ #password
        cn: Admin 1
        groups: [admin]
  external:
    uid: Auth-User
    cn: Auth-Cn
    groups: Auth-Groups
    login-url: https://auth.example.com/?url=<redirect>
    logout-url: https://auth.example.com/?url=<redirect>&logout=1
    logout-cookies-delete: [ext-auth-cookie]

padgroups:
  allgemein:
    name: Allgemein

  sitzung:
    name: Sitzung
    content: "<strong>Protokoll der Sitzung vom {{ date }}</strong><br>Beginn: 18 Uhr<br>Ende:&nbsp;<br>Anwesende:<br>Moderation:<br>Protokoll:<br><br><strong>Berichte</strong><br><br><strong>TOP 1</strong><br><br><strong>TOP 2</strong><br><br>"
    padname: "Sitzung_{{ date }}"
    padnameismandatory: true
    contentismandatory: true

  admins:
    name: Admins
	groups:
	  - admin
	user:
	  - hackherz
```

## Sections

### default

- **title** The title of your Padwoman instance
- **secretkey** Necessary for secure cookies

### redis

- **host** your redis host, mandatory

You can use every argument which is specififed by the python redis library.


### pad

- **apikey** the apikey of your etherpad-lite instance
- **apiurl** the (internal) url where the etherpad api is reachable from the padwoman host
- **url** the public url of your pads


### auth

- **method** must be one of the authentication modules in the auth/ folder

#### static

- **users** is a list of users with the following form:
  - **uid** The user id
  - **pw** The password in either hashed form or in plaintext
  - **cn** The common name (display name)
  - **groups** (optional) A list of groups the is is part of

Do not use plaintext passwords in production use!

You can generate hashed passwords in python with `crypt.crypt(password)`.

#### none

No configuration needed.

#### ldap
- **userfilter** expects a username (%s) as argument
- **groupfilter** expects a username (%s) as argument

#### external

- **uid** The HTTP header field name for the uid
- **cn** (optional) The HTTP header field name for the common name
- **groups** (optional) The HTTP header field name for the groups, which are seperated by a `;`
- **login-url** (optional) The URL where to redirect to for login. `<redirect>` will be replaced with the base64 encoded pad URL
- **logout-url** (optional) The URL where to redirect to for logout. `<redirect>` will be replaced with the base64 encoded pad URL
- **logout-cookies-delete** (optional) A list of cookies that are destroyed at logout

Do not use this method unless you have properly set up a reverse proxy that handles the authentication!


### padgroups

The groups are listed below an unique identifier, which is only used in the configuration (so the name does not really matter).

- **name** The Name of the group, it has to be unique.
- **padname** the suggested name for new pads
- **content** a simple html template for new pads
- **padnameismandatory** boolean if the suggested name of the pad is enforced or not
- **contentismandatory** boolean if the pad template is enforced or not
- **user** a list of usernames which are allowed to view the padgroup
- **groups** a list of ldap groups which are allowed to view the padgroup


If there are no users or groups specified everyone who can login is allowed to view that padgroup.

**content** and **padname** have the following variables they can use ({{ variablename }}):

- **date** the current date
- **time** the current time
- **datetime** the current date and time

Commit message:

Add option for user adjustable date and time
Weekday and time default can be provided.

docs/config.md, after:

# Configuration

Padwoman uses [YAML](https://yaml.org/) as its configuration style.


## Example Configuration

```yaml
default:
  title: Padserver
  secretkey: changeme

redis:
  host: redis

pad:
  apikey: changethistoyourkeys
  apiurl: http://etherpad:9001/api/
  url: https://pads.tld/p/

auth:
  method: ldap
  ldap:
    server: ldap://ldapserver:389
    usertree: ou=alluser,dc=blub,dc=de
    grouptree: ou=groups,dc=blub,dc=de
    userfilter: (&(uid=%s)(objectClass=posixAccount))
    groupfilter: (&(objectClass=posixGroup)(memberUID=%s))
    binddn: cn=www-data,dc=blub,dc=de
    bindpw: bindpw
  static:
    users:
      - uid: user1
        pw: user1
        cn: User 1
      - uid: admin1
        pw: $6$TChhNwMGF.1sn3yi$iJ2klrOEyGlGxOVImpIAq5Ak8J2iaVsSEFTkNONPv6F78FRD7X8UZP5Y/0BoQkf9v.Z99bjUn3qsi21M4LWZn/ #password
        cn: Admin 1
        groups: [admin]
  external:
    uid: Auth-User
    cn: Auth-Cn
    groups: Auth-Groups
    login-url: https://auth.example.com/?url=<redirect>
    logout-url: https://auth.example.com/?url=<redirect>&logout=1
    logout-cookies-delete: [ext-auth-cookie]

padgroups:
  allgemein:
    name: Allgemein

  sitzung:
    name: Sitzung
    content: "<strong>Protokoll der Sitzung vom {{ date }}</strong><br>Beginn: 18 Uhr<br>Ende:&nbsp;<br>Anwesende:<br>Moderation:<br>Protokoll:<br><br><strong>Berichte</strong><br><br><strong>TOP 1</strong><br><br><strong>TOP 2</strong><br><br>"
    padname: "Sitzung_{{ date }}"
    padnameismandatory: true
    contentismandatory: true
    datetimeadjustable: true
    weekdaydefault: 2
    timedefault: "18:00"

  admins:
    name: Admins
	groups:
	  - admin
	user:
	  - hackherz
```

## Sections

### default

- **title** The title of your Padwoman instance
- **secretkey** Necessary for secure cookies

### redis

- **host** your redis host, mandatory

You can use every argument which is specififed by the python redis library.


### pad

- **apikey** the apikey of your etherpad-lite instance
- **apiurl** the (internal) url where the etherpad api is reachable from the padwoman host
- **url** the public url of your pads


### auth

- **method** must be one of the authentication modules in the auth/ folder

#### static

- **users** is a list of users with the following form:
  - **uid** The user id
  - **pw** The password in either hashed form or in plaintext
  - **cn** The common name (display name)
  - **groups** (optional) A list of groups the is is part of

Do not use plaintext passwords in production use!

You can generate hashed passwords in python with `crypt.crypt(password)`.

#### none

No configuration needed.

#### ldap
- **userfilter** expects a username (%s) as argument
- **groupfilter** expects a username (%s) as argument

#### external

- **uid** The HTTP header field name for the uid
- **cn** (optional) The HTTP header field name for the common name
- **groups** (optional) The HTTP header field name for the groups, which are seperated by a `;`
- **login-url** (optional) The URL where to redirect to for login. `<redirect>` will be replaced with the base64 encoded pad URL
- **logout-url** (optional) The URL where to redirect to for logout. `<redirect>` will be replaced with the base64 encoded pad URL
- **logout-cookies-delete** (optional) A list of cookies that are destroyed at logout

Do not use this method unless you have properly set up a reverse proxy that handles the authentication!


### padgroups

The groups are listed below an unique identifier, which is only used in the configuration (so the name does not really matter).

- **name** The Name of the group, it has to be unique.
- **padname** the suggested name for new pads
- **content** a simple html template for new pads
- **padnameismandatory** boolean if the suggested name of the pad is enforced or not
- **contentismandatory** boolean if the pad template is enforced or not
- **user** a list of usernames which are allowed to view the padgroup
- **groups** a list of ldap groups which are allowed to view the padgroup
- **datetimeadjustable** boolean if the date and/or time is a user input
- **weekdaydefault** (optional) the default weekday (iso number) from which the default date is calculated
- **timedefault** (optional) the default time


If there are no users or groups specified everyone who can login is allowed to view that padgroup.

**content** and **padname** have the following variables they can use ({{ variablename }}):

- **date** either the current date or user supplied (see datetimeadjustable)
- **time** either the current time or user supplied
- **datetime** either the current date and time or user supplied
